Laravel is a php framework created by Taylor Otwell. Just like its counter parts laravel provides a way of organizing and designing an app's source code. 

A Larvel project is created like this
```bash
composer create-project --prefer-dist laravel/laravel my-app
```

# Table of contents
- [MVC](#mvc)
- [Summary](#summary)

# MVC
Laravel uses the MVC pattern to structure its projects. MVC is an acronym for __Model__, __View__, __Controller__. Each part handles a task:
- _Models_ define the data structure and communicate with the database
- _Views_ handle the interface between the application and the users
- _Controllers_ manage the data flow and communicate between the model and the view

```
Request --> Controller --> Model --> Controller --> View --> Browser
```

The MVC pattern allows for the following:
- Strategical code organization
- Efficient teamwork
- Event-driven communication between the different layers
- A composite structure: views are composed of several elements superimposed on each other, generated by the interactions between the app and the user.

Larvel commes with features that make building apps faster than building them from scratch.

# Summary
Larvel is a php framework created by Taylor Otwell that allows building applications faster than working with plain php. It uses the MVC pattern to organize the source code. MVC is acronym that stands for __Model__, __View__, __Controller__. Each layer is responsible for a task:
- _Models_ define the datastructure and interact with the database.
- _Views_ handle the user interface
- _Controllers_ interact with both the model and the view, they are in charge of the dataflow.
