# Table of contents
- [Files and Folders](#files\and\folders)
	- [Most Important Folders](#most\important\folders)
- [Routes](#routes)
	- ==[Facades](#facades)
	- [HTTP Definition](#http\definition)
	- [Example](#example)
- [Views](#views)
- [Controllers](#controllers)
	- [Setup](#setup)
	- [Referencing route to a controller](#referencing\route\to\a\controller)
- [Migrations](#migrations)
	- [The `up()` method](#the\up\(\)\method)
- [Creating models](#creating\models)


---

# Files and Folders

| Folder | Description |
|---------|-------------|
|app| Holds the base code of the application|
|bootstrap| Contains all the bootstrapping scripts used for the application|
|config| Holds all the configuration files of the project|
|database| Holds all the database files|
|public| Helps in starting the Laravel project it also holds other scripts such as javascript and CSS aswell as images|
|resources| Holds all the sass files, localization files and or templates|
|routes|Contains all the definition files for routing such as `console.php`, `api.php`...|
|storage|Holds all the session files, cache, compiled templates and some miscellaneous files generated by the framework|
|test| Contains all the test cases|
|Vendor| Holds all composer depencdency files|

## Most important folders
- __Models__ are in __app/Models__
- __Controllers__ are in __app/Http/Controllers__
- __Views__ art in __resources/views__ folder
- __Migrations__ are in __database/migrations__

>Javascript files are added in the __public__ folder, if we wish to use sass or tailwind we have to go through [Laravel Mix](https://laravel.com/docs/10.x/mix#main-content)

# Routes
Routes are the main entrance of a Laravel application. When we create a route, we call its controller and a specific action. A list of all available routes can be seen with the following command: `php artisan route:list` 

## Facades
Facades provide a _static_ interface to classes that are available in the application's service container, Laravel ships with multiple facades that provide access to almost all of its features. They serve as _static proxies_ to underlying classes in the service container.

## HTTP Definition
HTTP defines a set of request methods to indicate the desired action to be performed for a given resouce, they are sometimes reffered to as HTTP verbs. Each one of the them implements a different action however some common features are shared among them. A request method can be safe, ==idempotent==, or cacheable.

## Example
```php
// Display all the articles
Route::get('/articles',function(){
    ...
});
// Show the form in order to create an article
Route::get('/article/create',function(){
    ...
});
// Post/public the article
Route::post('/article/create',function(){
    ...
});
// Show the form of an article
Route::get('/article/edit/{post:id}',function($id){
    ...
});
```

# Views
Views are the files that all users will see from our app. The views are called only with the _HTTP get_ request.

```
|-resources
    |-views
        |-article
          index.blade.php
          show.blade.php
          create.blade.php  
```
```php
// Show each article by its id
Route::get('/article/show/{post:id}',function($id){
    return view('article.edit',['id' => $id]);
});
```

## Passing arguments to views
Arguments can be passed to a view like so:

```php
Route::get('/hello/{name}',function($name){
    return view('hello',compact('name'));
});
```

As seen in the example above arguments are _transfered_ to a view using the `compact()` function. It takes a variable number of parameters. Each parameter can be either a string containing the name of the variable, or an array of variable names. The arrays can be nested, `compact()` handles them recursively.

`compact()` returns an array with all the variables in it.

# Controllers
Controllers are a bit like the bandleader, it controll who interacts with the __Model__ to create data for the __View__.

## Setup
We can controllers using the command:

```
php artisan make:controller <nameController> --resource
```

By convention the name of a controller starts with a capital letter followed by _Controller_, in one word.

The `--resource` flag is used to initiate default methods when the controller is created.

# Referencing route to a controller

Lets take for example this route:

```php
use App\Http\Controllers\ArticleController;

Route::get('/articles',[AuthController::class,'index']);
```

- `/articles` is the name of the route
- `[AuthController::class, index]`, is the route which references the `AuthController` and assigns the index method.

# Migrations

>In the root of our directory there is a `.env` file where we can add details that we want to keep hidden, such as database credentials. Aftre altering the `.env` file we must reinitialize our app with the following command `php artisan config:clear`

Migrations are a way to alter and update a database in a structured way instead of using something like _phpmyadmin_.

To creat a migration we can use the artisan command:

```bash
php artisan make:migration create_articles_table
```

Migrations can be found at `database -> migrations`. In a migration file there two methods `up()` and `down()`:
- `up()` is for running the migration
- `down()` is for reversing the migration

## The `up()` method
We can create fields in a given table, by using the `$table` object and making a call to a specific method. Example:
```php
  public function up()
    {
        Schema::create('articles', function (Blueprint $table) {
            $table->id();
            $table->string('title');
            $table->text('content');
            $table->timestamps();
        });
    }
```

# Creating models
We can create a model for a given migration by using the following command: `php artisan make:model Article`